docs/docs/develop/contributing.md, before:

---
title: Contribution Guide
---


Please read the contribution guidelines below, before submitting your first pull request to the InvenTree codebase.

## Quickstart

The following commands will get you quickly configure and run a development server, complete with a demo dataset to work with:

### Devcontainer

The recommended method for getting up and running with an InvenTree development environment is to use our [devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) setup in [vscode](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

!!! success "Devcontainer Guide"
    Refer to the [devcontainer guide](./devcontainer.md) for more information!

### Docker

To setup a development environment using [docker](../start/docker.md), run the following instructions:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree.git && cd InvenTree
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml run --rm inventree-dev-server invoke install
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml run --rm inventree-dev-server invoke dev.setup-test --dev
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### Bare Metal

A "bare metal" development setup can be installed as follows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree.git && cd InvenTree
python3 -m venv env && source env/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade --ignore-installed invoke
invoke install
invoke update
invoke dev.setup-dev --tests
```

Read the [InvenTree setup documentation](../start/index.md) for a complete installation reference guide.

!!! note "Required Packages"
    Depending on your system, you may need to install additional software packages as required.

### Setup Devtools

Run the following command to set up the tools required for development.

```bash
invoke dev.setup-dev
```

*We recommend you run this command before starting to contribute. This will install and set up `pre-commit` to run some checks before each commit and help reduce errors.*

## Branches and Versioning

InvenTree roughly follow the [GitLab flow](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/what-are-gitlab-flow-best-practices/) branching style, to allow simple management of multiple tagged releases, short-lived branches, and development on the main branch.

There are nominally 5 active branches:
- `master` - The main development branch
- `stable` - The latest stable release
- `l10n` - Translation branch: Source to Crowdin
- `l10_crowdin` - Translation branch: Source from Crowdin
- `y.y.x` - Release branch for the currently supported version (e.g. `0.5.x`)

All other branches are removed periodically by maintainers or core team members. This includes old release branches.
Do not use them as base for feature development or forks as patches from them might not be accepted without rebasing.

### Version Numbering

InvenTree version numbering follows the [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) specification.

### Main Development Branch

The HEAD of the "master" branch of InvenTree represents the current "latest" state of code development.

- All feature branches are merged into master
- All bug fixes are merged into master

**No pushing to master:** New features must be submitted as a pull request from a separate branch (one branch per feature).

### Feature Branches

Feature branches should be branched *from* the *master* branch.

- One major feature per branch / pull request
- Feature pull requests are merged back *into* the master branch

### Stable Branch

The HEAD of the "stable" branch represents the latest stable release code.

- Versioned releases are merged into the "stable" branch
- Bug fix branches are made *from* the "stable" branch


### Bugfix Branches

- If a bug is discovered in a tagged release version of InvenTree, a "bugfix" or "hotfix" branch should be made *from* that tagged release
- When approved, the branch is merged back *into* stable, with an incremented PATCH number (e.g. 0.4.1 -> 0.4.2)
- The bugfix *must* also be cherry picked into the *master* branch.
- A bugfix *might* also be backported from *master* to the *stable* branch automatically if marked with the `backport` label.

### Translation Branches

Crowdin is used for web-based translation management. The handling of files is fully automated, the `l10n` and `l10_crowdin` branches are used to manage the translation process and are not meant to be touched manually by anyone.

The translation process is as follows:
1. Commits to `master` trigger CI by GitHub Actions
2. Translation source files are created and automatically pushed to the `l10n` branch - this is the source branch for Crowdin
3. Crowdin picks up on the new source files and makes them available for translation
4. Translations made in Crowdin are automatically pushed back to the `l10_crowdin` branch by Crowdin once they are approved
5. The `l10_crowdin` branch is merged back into `master` by a maintainer periodically

## API versioning

The [API version]({{ sourcefile("src/backend/InvenTree/InvenTree/api_version.py") }}) needs to be bumped every time when the API is changed.

## Environment

### Software Versions

The core software modules are targeting the following versions:

| Name | Minimum version | Note |
|---|---| --- |
| Python | {{ config.extra.min_python_version }} | Minimum required version |
| Invoke | {{ config.extra.min_invoke_version }} | Minimum required version |
| Django | {{ config.extra.django_version }} | Pinned version |
| Node | 20 | Only needed for frontend development |

Any other software dependencies are handled by the project package config.

### Auto creating updates

The following tools can be used to auto-upgrade syntax that was depreciated in new versions:
```bash
pip install pyupgrade
pip install django-upgrade
```

To update the codebase run the following script.
```bash
pyupgrade `find . -name "*.py"`
django-upgrade --target-version {{ config.extra.django_version }} `find . -name "*.py"`
```

## Migration Files

Any required migration files **must** be included in the commit, or the pull-request will be rejected. If you change the underlying database schema, make sure you run `invoke migrate` and commit the migration files before submitting the PR.

*Note: A github action checks for unstaged migration files and will reject the PR if it finds any!*

## Unit Testing

Any new code should be covered by unit tests - a submitted PR may not be accepted if the code coverage for any new features is insufficient, or the overall code coverage is decreased.

The InvenTree code base makes use of [GitHub actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to run a suite of automated tests against the code base every time a new pull request is received. These actions include (but are not limited to):

- Checking Python and Javascript code against standard style guides
- Running unit test suite
- Automated building and pushing of docker images
- Generating translation files

The various github actions can be found in the `./github/workflows` directory

### Run tests locally

To run test locally, use:

```
invoke dev.test
```

To run only partial tests, for example for a module use:
```
invoke dev.test --runtest order
```

To see all the available options:

```
invoke dev.test --help
```

#### Database Permission Issues

For local testing django creates a test database and removes it after testing. If you encounter permission issues while running unit test, ensure that your database user has permission to create new databases.

For example, in PostgreSQL, run:

```
alter user myuser createdb;
```

!!! info "Devcontainer"
    The default database container which is provided in the devcontainer is already setup with the required permissions

## Code Style

Code style is automatically checked as part of the project's CI pipeline on GitHub. This means that any pull requests which do not conform to the style guidelines will fail CI checks.

### Backend Code

Backend code (Python) is checked against the [PEP style guidelines](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/). Please write docstrings for each function and class - we follow the [google doc-style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings) for python.

### Frontend Code

Frontend code (Javascript) is checked using [eslint](https://eslint.org/). While docstrings are not enforced for front-end code, good code documentation is encouraged!

### Running Checks Locally

If you have followed the setup devtools procedure, then code style checking is performend automatically whenever you commit changes to the code.

### Django templates

Django are checked by [djlint](https://github.com/Riverside-Healthcare/djlint) through pre-commit.

The following rules out of the [default set](https://djlint.com/docs/linter/) are not applied:
```bash
D018: (Django) Internal links should use the { % url ... % } pattern
H006: Img tag should have height and width attributes
H008: Attributes should be double quoted
H021: Inline styles should be avoided
H023: Do not use entity references
H025: Tag seems to be an orphan
H030: Consider adding a meta description
H031: Consider adding meta keywords
T002: Double quotes should be used in tags
```


## Documentation

New features or updates to existing features should be accompanied by user documentation.

## Translations

Any user-facing strings *must* be passed through the translation engine.

- InvenTree code is written in English
- User translatable strings are provided in English as the primary language
- Secondary language translations are provided [via Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/inventree)

*Note: Translation files are updated via GitHub actions - you do not need to compile translations files before submitting a pull request!*

### Python Code

For strings exposed via Python code, use the following format:

```python
from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _

user_facing_string = _('This string will be exposed to the translation engine!')
```

### Templated Strings

HTML and javascript files are passed through the django templating engine. Translatable strings are implemented as follows:

```html
{ % load i18n % }

<span>{ % trans "This string will be translated" % } - this string will not!</span>
```

## Github use

### Tags

The tags describe issues and PRs in multiple areas:

| Area | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Triage Labels |  |  |
|  | triage:not-checked | Item was not checked by the core team  |
|  | triage:not-approved | Item is not green-light by maintainer |
| Type Labels |  |  |
|  | breaking | Indicates a major update or change which breaks compatibility |
|  | bug | Identifies a bug which needs to be addressed |
|  | dependency | Relates to a project dependency |
|  | duplicate | Duplicate of another issue or PR |
|  | enhancement | This is an suggested enhancement, extending the functionality of an existing feature |
|  | experimental | This is a new *experimental* feature which needs to be enabled manually |
|  | feature | This is a new feature, introducing novel functionality |
|  | help wanted | Assistance required |
|  | invalid | This issue or PR is considered invalid |
|  | inactive | Indicates lack of activity |
|  | migration | Database migration, requires special attention |
|  | question | This is a question |
|  | roadmap | This is a roadmap feature with no immediate plans for implementation |
|  | security | Relates to a security issue |
|  | starter | Good issue for a developer new to the project |
|  | wontfix | No work will be done against this issue or PR |
| Feature Labels |  |  |
|  | API | Relates to the API |
|  | barcode | Barcode scanning and integration |
|  | build | Build orders |
|  | importer | Data importing and processing |
|  | order | Purchase order and sales orders |
|  | part | Parts |
|  | plugin | Plugin ecosystem |
|  | pricing | Pricing functionality |
|  | report | Report generation |
|  | stock | Stock item management |
|  | user interface | User interface |
| Ecosystem Labels |  |  |
|  | backport | Tags that the issue will be backported to a stable branch as a bug-fix |
|  | demo | Relates to the InvenTree demo server or dataset |
|  | docker | Docker / docker-compose |
|  | CI | CI / unit testing ecosystem |
|  | refactor | Refactoring existing code |
|  | setup | Relates to the InvenTree setup / installation process |

Commit message:

feat(backend): record contexts for coverage (#9643)
* feat(backend): Record contexts for coverage

* add docs

docs/docs/develop/contributing.md, after:

---
title: Contribution Guide
---


Please read the contribution guidelines below, before submitting your first pull request to the InvenTree codebase.

## Quickstart

The following commands will get you quickly configure and run a development server, complete with a demo dataset to work with:

### Devcontainer

The recommended method for getting up and running with an InvenTree development environment is to use our [devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) setup in [vscode](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

!!! success "Devcontainer Guide"
    Refer to the [devcontainer guide](./devcontainer.md) for more information!

### Docker

To setup a development environment using [docker](../start/docker.md), run the following instructions:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree.git && cd InvenTree
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml run --rm inventree-dev-server invoke install
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml run --rm inventree-dev-server invoke dev.setup-test --dev
docker compose --project-directory . -f contrib/container/dev-docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### Bare Metal

A "bare metal" development setup can be installed as follows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree.git && cd InvenTree
python3 -m venv env && source env/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade --ignore-installed invoke
invoke install
invoke update
invoke dev.setup-dev --tests
```

Read the [InvenTree setup documentation](../start/index.md) for a complete installation reference guide.

!!! note "Required Packages"
    Depending on your system, you may need to install additional software packages as required.

### Setup Devtools

Run the following command to set up the tools required for development.

```bash
invoke dev.setup-dev
```

*We recommend you run this command before starting to contribute. This will install and set up `pre-commit` to run some checks before each commit and help reduce errors.*

## Branches and Versioning

InvenTree roughly follow the [GitLab flow](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/what-are-gitlab-flow-best-practices/) branching style, to allow simple management of multiple tagged releases, short-lived branches, and development on the main branch.

There are nominally 5 active branches:
- `master` - The main development branch
- `stable` - The latest stable release
- `l10n` - Translation branch: Source to Crowdin
- `l10_crowdin` - Translation branch: Source from Crowdin
- `y.y.x` - Release branch for the currently supported version (e.g. `0.5.x`)

All other branches are removed periodically by maintainers or core team members. This includes old release branches.
Do not use them as base for feature development or forks as patches from them might not be accepted without rebasing.

### Version Numbering

InvenTree version numbering follows the [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) specification.

### Main Development Branch

The HEAD of the "master" branch of InvenTree represents the current "latest" state of code development.

- All feature branches are merged into master
- All bug fixes are merged into master

**No pushing to master:** New features must be submitted as a pull request from a separate branch (one branch per feature).

### Feature Branches

Feature branches should be branched *from* the *master* branch.

- One major feature per branch / pull request
- Feature pull requests are merged back *into* the master branch

### Stable Branch

The HEAD of the "stable" branch represents the latest stable release code.

- Versioned releases are merged into the "stable" branch
- Bug fix branches are made *from* the "stable" branch


### Bugfix Branches

- If a bug is discovered in a tagged release version of InvenTree, a "bugfix" or "hotfix" branch should be made *from* that tagged release
- When approved, the branch is merged back *into* stable, with an incremented PATCH number (e.g. 0.4.1 -> 0.4.2)
- The bugfix *must* also be cherry picked into the *master* branch.
- A bugfix *might* also be backported from *master* to the *stable* branch automatically if marked with the `backport` label.

### Translation Branches

Crowdin is used for web-based translation management. The handling of files is fully automated, the `l10n` and `l10_crowdin` branches are used to manage the translation process and are not meant to be touched manually by anyone.

The translation process is as follows:
1. Commits to `master` trigger CI by GitHub Actions
2. Translation source files are created and automatically pushed to the `l10n` branch - this is the source branch for Crowdin
3. Crowdin picks up on the new source files and makes them available for translation
4. Translations made in Crowdin are automatically pushed back to the `l10_crowdin` branch by Crowdin once they are approved
5. The `l10_crowdin` branch is merged back into `master` by a maintainer periodically

## API versioning

The [API version]({{ sourcefile("src/backend/InvenTree/InvenTree/api_version.py") }}) needs to be bumped every time when the API is changed.

## Environment

### Software Versions

The core software modules are targeting the following versions:

| Name | Minimum version | Note |
|---|---| --- |
| Python | {{ config.extra.min_python_version }} | Minimum required version |
| Invoke | {{ config.extra.min_invoke_version }} | Minimum required version |
| Django | {{ config.extra.django_version }} | Pinned version |
| Node | 20 | Only needed for frontend development |

Any other software dependencies are handled by the project package config.

### Auto creating updates

The following tools can be used to auto-upgrade syntax that was depreciated in new versions:
```bash
pip install pyupgrade
pip install django-upgrade
```

To update the codebase run the following script.
```bash
pyupgrade `find . -name "*.py"`
django-upgrade --target-version {{ config.extra.django_version }} `find . -name "*.py"`
```

## Migration Files

Any required migration files **must** be included in the commit, or the pull-request will be rejected. If you change the underlying database schema, make sure you run `invoke migrate` and commit the migration files before submitting the PR.

*Note: A github action checks for unstaged migration files and will reject the PR if it finds any!*

## Unit Testing

Any new code should be covered by unit tests - a submitted PR may not be accepted if the code coverage for any new features is insufficient, or the overall code coverage is decreased.

The InvenTree code base makes use of [GitHub actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to run a suite of automated tests against the code base every time a new pull request is received. These actions include (but are not limited to):

- Checking Python and Javascript code against standard style guides
- Running unit test suite
- Automated building and pushing of docker images
- Generating translation files

The various github actions can be found in the `./github/workflows` directory

### Run tests locally

To run test locally, use:

```
invoke dev.test
```

To run only partial tests, for example for a module use:
```
invoke dev.test --runtest order
```

To see all the available options:

```
invoke dev.test --help
```

#### Database Permission Issues

For local testing django creates a test database and removes it after testing. If you encounter permission issues while running unit test, ensure that your database user has permission to create new databases.

For example, in PostgreSQL, run:

```
alter user myuser createdb;
```

!!! info "Devcontainer"
    The default database container which is provided in the devcontainer is already setup with the required permissions

### Trace coverage to specific tests

Sometimes it is valuable to get insights how many tests cover a specific statement and which ones do. coverage.py calls this information contexts. Contexts are automatically captured by the invoke task test (with coverage enabled) and can be rendered with below command into a HTML report.
```bash
coverage html -i
```

The coverage database is also generated in the CI-pipeline and exposd for 14 days as a artifact named `coverage`.

## Code Style

Code style is automatically checked as part of the project's CI pipeline on GitHub. This means that any pull requests which do not conform to the style guidelines will fail CI checks.

### Backend Code

Backend code (Python) is checked against the [PEP style guidelines](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/). Please write docstrings for each function and class - we follow the [google doc-style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings) for python.

### Frontend Code

Frontend code (Javascript) is checked using [eslint](https://eslint.org/). While docstrings are not enforced for front-end code, good code documentation is encouraged!

### Running Checks Locally

If you have followed the setup devtools procedure, then code style checking is performend automatically whenever you commit changes to the code.

### Django templates

Django are checked by [djlint](https://github.com/Riverside-Healthcare/djlint) through pre-commit.

The following rules out of the [default set](https://djlint.com/docs/linter/) are not applied:
```bash
D018: (Django) Internal links should use the { % url ... % } pattern
H006: Img tag should have height and width attributes
H008: Attributes should be double quoted
H021: Inline styles should be avoided
H023: Do not use entity references
H025: Tag seems to be an orphan
H030: Consider adding a meta description
H031: Consider adding meta keywords
T002: Double quotes should be used in tags
```


## Documentation

New features or updates to existing features should be accompanied by user documentation.

## Translations

Any user-facing strings *must* be passed through the translation engine.

- InvenTree code is written in English
- User translatable strings are provided in English as the primary language
- Secondary language translations are provided [via Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/inventree)

*Note: Translation files are updated via GitHub actions - you do not need to compile translations files before submitting a pull request!*

### Python Code

For strings exposed via Python code, use the following format:

```python
from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _

user_facing_string = _('This string will be exposed to the translation engine!')
```

### Templated Strings

HTML and javascript files are passed through the django templating engine. Translatable strings are implemented as follows:

```html
{ % load i18n % }

<span>{ % trans "This string will be translated" % } - this string will not!</span>
```

## Github use

### Tags

The tags describe issues and PRs in multiple areas:

| Area | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Triage Labels |  |  |
|  | triage:not-checked | Item was not checked by the core team  |
|  | triage:not-approved | Item is not green-light by maintainer |
| Type Labels |  |  |
|  | breaking | Indicates a major update or change which breaks compatibility |
|  | bug | Identifies a bug which needs to be addressed |
|  | dependency | Relates to a project dependency |
|  | duplicate | Duplicate of another issue or PR |
|  | enhancement | This is an suggested enhancement, extending the functionality of an existing feature |
|  | experimental | This is a new *experimental* feature which needs to be enabled manually |
|  | feature | This is a new feature, introducing novel functionality |
|  | help wanted | Assistance required |
|  | invalid | This issue or PR is considered invalid |
|  | inactive | Indicates lack of activity |
|  | migration | Database migration, requires special attention |
|  | question | This is a question |
|  | roadmap | This is a roadmap feature with no immediate plans for implementation |
|  | security | Relates to a security issue |
|  | starter | Good issue for a developer new to the project |
|  | wontfix | No work will be done against this issue or PR |
| Feature Labels |  |  |
|  | API | Relates to the API |
|  | barcode | Barcode scanning and integration |
|  | build | Build orders |
|  | importer | Data importing and processing |
|  | order | Purchase order and sales orders |
|  | part | Parts |
|  | plugin | Plugin ecosystem |
|  | pricing | Pricing functionality |
|  | report | Report generation |
|  | stock | Stock item management |
|  | user interface | User interface |
| Ecosystem Labels |  |  |
|  | backport | Tags that the issue will be backported to a stable branch as a bug-fix |
|  | demo | Relates to the InvenTree demo server or dataset |
|  | docker | Docker / docker-compose |
|  | CI | CI / unit testing ecosystem |
|  | refactor | Refactoring existing code |
|  | setup | Relates to the InvenTree setup / installation process |
